I'm on a journey across North Korea and after a week, it's time for me to leave the capital Pyongyang
On my way I pass under the imposing arch of a reunification
Impressive
Reunification of Korea might be the aim the leadership, but the reality is this is still a country divided
North Korea
It's a brutal dictatorship a country shrouded in mystery suspicion and fear
but after a week
I think I'm getting past the stereotypes
This is a culture where reverence to the great leaders is all
And the sense of mass unity is so strong
And now I gained access to areas of the country that are normally off-limits
To understand the wall that divided Korea
It's interesting to hear your side of it because we were told we had won a new believe unit one
To learn about its ancient past
And what the leadership claims it has planned for the future with strength with all built in a year
Traveling away from cities. I'll be meeting the people of rural North Korea. So that's
What do you want to do and
Once again, I'll be accompanied by local guides, but maybe they're the ones who will reveal the real North Korea
Criticizing our leaders is like criticizing ourselves
And of mountain ranges beaches and forests
I'm about to discover a very different side of the DPRK
Opened in 2001 the 30 meter tall arch of reunification
represents the great leader Kim il-sung's dream of
reunifying North and South Korea
It's also the starting point of the road that will take me directly to the border
And so far traffic doesn't seem to be a problem
this is the reunification highway which runs a hundred miles from Pyongyang to the
demilitarized zone
well, I suppose sadly because
Reunification hasn't happened yet. This road is one most empty hardly a single vehicle of six Lee Highway
miles of empty road
I'm heading a hundred miles south to the DMZ the Demilitarized Zone the two and a half mile wide
border that splits the Korean Peninsula into
With me and my two guides trunk. Oh, oh, so yeah
After three hours
We arrived at the joint security area
The one place on the DMZ where you can cross from one side of Korea to the other
Looking after me is the rather intimidating senior leftenant. Hwang jung jin
It's ago so comenzará personal sins of Buddhism
College Hyun Joong Ki do eBay or chip chips?
Contain a single possible way. So use of taboos are an independent
The Demilitarized Zone was created as a result of the Korean War in the 1950s
Like most people in the West Island that the war started when North Korea invaded South Korea
Who then defended by the UN and America, but the senior leftenant sees it rather differently
In our attention delicate and even - no she doesn't
Tampons are suitable because from a co the American citizen
But really nobody won the Korean War has just been a ceasefire for over 60 years
It's interesting
To hear your your side of it because a man was 10 years old when the war the armistice
Ended the conflict in 1953 and we were told we had won
And a new believe unit one. So there were
Some terrible Sigismund
Hamari pakki God Virginia border Gaza was a chocolate onion. You've asked me a thousand Ataman
Well, I would say the worlds on both sides so it's a yeah
Neither side won
Our minders are not particularly happy with me questioning who won the war
So we walk on to what is probably the most militarily and politically sensitive area in the whole of the Korean Peninsula
These blue UN conference rooms are the only place you can walk between North and South Korean
the borders marked by the raised concrete line in the middle of the Hutt's
Community Nancy Gildea MD goksaheun Harun donor favorites John Grossman. I
Have been here once before from the other side 1996
22 years ago while filming in South Korea. I stood on the other side of the border as part of a tour group
Escorted by American soldiers North Korea seemed an impenetrable land but I have always wanted to see it for myself
If you wish to make across the new North Korea, please do so at another table
And more than two decades on here I am this time crossing from north to south
The atmosphere is still tense
So this is 22 years later I
remember thinking then that's you know, I
it was like it was a
presented as a blank wall there from which you would get no response at all and yet I
Felt I wanted to know more you had to know more. You can't just have one side of the story
You've got to look at the other side of the story. So
It's rather
It's I'm rather pleased that I'm given the chance have been given the chance today to see the other side as well so
This time I don't have to
Go back
And I have the doors who didn't before that live group of people. I can come in on my own I
Can walk over it's North Korea and I can stay here for a bit and probably have my lunch here
And that that I think that's something I
Feel that's an achievement is of some kind for all of us
Sadly these huts represent a massive failure of diplomacy
And since 1953 North Korea has found it necessary to create one of the biggest armies in the world
It reportedly spends 25 percent of its GDP on the military and it's notorious nuclear weapons program
None of this makes for good small talk
Nuclear warheads and nuclear missiles have cost your country and a lot of money to develop
Bougie Washington do bakusaiga so dear old rocky. So do Bo or Marco we don't haggle. Khadija and also video to mushroom
Hopefully there are signs
that there may be a change in relations between
your side and
America is this good news
Buland also supposed to go thing on Berlin
Well, I hope that people recognize that
We don't really need wars and armies and
weapons
We should understand each other by meeting each other talking to each other
sharing our experience rather than
Fighting each other. It's a simple message and
You know, I hope one day more people will understand. You don't come our own theater group, Aaron Harvey
imbecile you crooked ghost
It's good to meet you, and I hope you're successful with no more loss of life, you know
After this the guide seemed to relax if only the real peace talks could end this well a
Sad legacy of the Korean War is that most of North Korea was destroyed by American bombing?
Leaving few reminders of what was here before?
But just a couple of miles away from the DMZ is a town that a thousand years ago was the capital of Korea
This is caisson
During the Korean War it was part of South Korea so was spared bombardment
Now part of the north this city and my hotel make me feel like I've arrived in a totally different century
The buildings in the hotel are over a hundred years old and as night falls the guides and I are entertained by
Your fantastic
See how oh yeah, okay
Yeah
I
Took greater force to bash this great this yes. I actually spoke about the marks of your match on this charges
Kaesong has taken me back to North Korea's past. But tomorrow I'll be traveling towards its future
The next morning it's time to leave North Korea's history behind us
We're driving 300 miles to the beach town of one Sun a place which could play a large role in the DPRK
of tomorrow
But the roads are getting worse
Just about so half way now
This is the main road and
And yet it's it's it's pretty rough the surfaces
can be quite about to see
Have this slightly
You are nodding off there no, no I do I do. I'm surprised you can sleep on the road like this
Winding through the mountains with that the sea at the end of it's quite an adventure. I
associate the sea with
holidays
Do you have summer holidays here as well do holidays when you go away with your families?
We have we working people have 15 days vacation and we can choose any day
I go
To I usually go to the sea beach with my friends
Do you go with your family of me? Like mother and father? Oh, yeah. I got married last year in February
so oh
There she is
His wife he can't get away
After a fairly tortuous four hours
we arrived in the coastal town of warm Sun a
City at the center of Kim Jong Un's plan was to transform the North Korean economy
Thank you
I'm hoping the ping-pong won't keep me up
North Korea might be a country that has closed itself from the outside world, but paradoxically
It's also trying to restyle itself as an international beach
destination
A few miles away from my hotel
Kim jong-un has ambitious plans to turn one sound into the Costa del Korea
The huge construction project here in one Sun
To create a new resort and a massive amount of workers have been brought into the city and these women here
here every morning and other groups all over the city to
Encourage the workers to to build this extraordinary place an extraordinary first time
I can see it happening for hs2, but they didn't learn a thing or two
Holidays to North Korea might sound unlikely
But it's already a popular destination for the Chinese and international tourism is seen as a potential future growth area
this huge development of luxury beach hotels
conference centers and golf courses should be completed at the end of 2019, but
now to avoid disappointment and
Visitors won't have to endure a four-hour drive to get here because they've already built an international airport
It's all ready to go as even the first advert I've seen here
But there's a distinct lack of passengers
Or planes
What makes this Mary Celeste of airports even more bizarre is that all the shops and bars are fully staffed
Despite there being no customers
I suspect they're here for our benefit
Nothing is
confounded my
expectations of
DPRK
as much this gleaming new airport, and it seems to me it's a statement of intent that
DPRK is going out to the world
Come here, you know in order to fill this place. They've got her people from all over the world coming to the country
So it means that
the country itself will have to be seen by the rest of the world as the
Anion and wealth can be host rather than than you know possible
bad boy
But I wonder if
International tourists will want to travel to a country that is renowned for food shortages famine and poverty
With a landscape that is three-quarters mountain north Korea has always struggled to produce enough food for his people
This is the Johnson cooperative farm a few miles outside of one son
And I'm joining farmer Kim Hyung. We in the fields
Yeah, yogi some pure donkey wants to sell go 200 are you yes
Okay, so is it how many tsimko?
You foot outward only then damn system Sumida
Due to a lack of machinery and fuel most farm work is done by hand
That's our mothers young
How am I doing, all right what
a meter Oh
Your heater had some models head. I'm gonna solve it some good karate or move young thing. Oh,
Well, that's honest
That's honest
North Korea's food shortages hit their peak in the mid 1990s
Thanks to a fatal combination of flooding at the end of food imports from the collapsing Soviet Union
Aid agencies estimate more than a million people starved to death and it's something I'd be warned not to bring up
we
We remember hearing in the West that you had very bad
shortage of food in the 1990s
are things
Much better now
Ya see - Mira
I'm starting to get used to North Koreans shutting down when I ask uncomfortable questions
Food supplies might be getting better
but malnutrition is widely reported and though the government may not like to admit it the
Country still requires tens of thousands of tons of food aid each year
Very nice
very good
It's around samosas they keep them that way ah
Very nice to meet you. Thank you
Comfortable this is really
Yes, so that's your older brother, what do you want to do I mean
It's as you know anything, uh, Kim Johnson you Roberto bulgogi subha cause I didn't even go inna
Llaha so that chicken duck is a Komachi in for another
Young Hughie offers to make me some food. So I offer up my services as an English teacher
And what's that?
clock
brilliant
What's that
And put out your hand they are hand yeah my hand your hand hand that's good. Yeah
And let's see, what's that
Tree
Brilliant, that's great
Before I leave the farm my host is very insistent. I try some local food. Oh, this is your kimchi
Under the watchful eye of the great leaders
Mmm
It's very good, um
But it's very fiery
Fiery it's like eating fire
Some chili in here. I think nice and nutty vasquez on the demand. Yeah
Welcome to community don't assume
Thank you
I've been charmed by this family home
But I can't help but think this generous hospitality is partly to give me the impression that food is in plentiful supply in the DPRK
It's been a busy day so
Busy that it's easy to forget it's my 75th birthday
But the guides and my crew are not allowing me to forget
There's always a job for you in the DPRK
The next morning it's time to leave one son and head to a place that some say is the most beautiful in North Korea
On our way to Mount Kumgang and the weather's have changed completely from yesterday
if that career whether it's a bit like British weather yet one day of sunshine the next day of
bloom and drizzle but
It's rather attractive along the coastline here
We're driving to the mount kumgang region, it's just 80 miles away
But with North Korean roads, it's another back-breaking three-hour journey
So now something into the mountains I think very suddenly and they have
The last few miles
climbed a lot
As we arrived in Mount Kumgang the rain clears allowing us to begin a hike up the Korean waterfall
After two weeks so yang feels much more like a friend than an official guide
Colorful folders are so white compared to a list
You're like doing this hiking yes
trying to get some
more fresh air and relax and
I'll think of thinking of nothing else about the
Nature, it's good for the first time since I arrived in the DPRK, I feel a great sense of freedom
The rockers or North Korea
Gong Gong sound means diamond mountain
But even on this cloudy day it is stunning
I'm hoping this is a good place to have a more open
Conversation about our two countries. I
Find your country
so very different from ours and yet sometimes
Very similar. Oh, how do you get your
Your news of what's going on in the country
By mass media, you know TVs and radios and
And buying newspapers as well. What did I tell you about Britain how we live?
Be honest, you can be honest the British. Yeah
we feel
Yeah, I mean about appearance you look so different but yeah
and I was thinking about
In our way of life
which is really based on freedom of speech and freedom of thought and
People could wear what they want and they can dress what they want and they can be as rude as they want about
their leaders, you know presumably you think that's
Not a good thing
It's your freedom, it's your freedom
you can do what you want and we have gotta own your
own style and you have got your own style and your
citizens can do
They can do what they want. And yes
and your citizens can do what they want to
yes, I
mean at home one difference between I
suppose your culture and ours is that we can be
very rude about ah
Leaders here. I feel this you just have a different way of
Looking at things because our leaders are very great and the leaders are not
individual they are
They are
Represent they represent the popular I'll represent us
Mesa's so we cannot criticize ourselves
Can we
Criticizing our leaders is offending. It's like offending criticize ourselves
-
What do you think well, I think of my leaders that sometimes they're good
sometimes they're bad and I think they make some wrong decisions and
taking some right decisions and
You know, they're there that's that's the way they are
Your leaders
If I may respectfully say a very different and I absolutely respect
the respect
That you have that you have for your leaders. Yeah, I wouldn't want to change your feelings at all
But I'm it just be nice to talk about really I wouldn't want to change your feelings
No, that's what you feel in your an intelligent person is what we are so different from you
if you find
Yeah, but you know, I'm not bad. I mean we can talk about these and we have a similar
Intelligence about things but that's good, too. So I
Absolutely respect the respect you have for them and the way you feel about
Okay, I really do
I know these conversations are not easy for soo young
But what it has shown me is how every North Korea ties their identity to that of the great leaders
Whoa, I've had many discussions and
So young and I am guide
Is very chatty and she's very funny and we've had quite uninhibited discussions
But I was so difficult whenever you get on to any subject concerning the leadership
I mean
They just stop
I think it's just a very very difficult thing for them to talk about because you don't talk about the leaders
As soon as you talk about them you demean them in some way. I think that's what it is
I found that companies had quite tricky
But having said all that
We have been able to film every day
we've picked up a lot of material and I'm a great believer that
sometimes just seeing the way people know when people talk the way they eat just little glimpses of that and
The way they cultivate the farms or whatever and gives you a real
Insight into what's happening in the country
The next morning we make a speedy return to one son
Thankfully, this is my last North Korean road trip
after this
I hope to catch a plane from once an airport up to mount pink to the place where the story of the Kim dynasty began
And when we arrived at the ghost terminal building things seem to have changed
People everywhere on the gate
Boarding card
Thank you. Thank you. Yeah
But after checking in things seemed to grind to a halt
Well, there's been a bit of a hiccup here because some the
mist you can see is cloaking loose an airport and playing that's taking us up to my pet to cannot take off from
Pyongyang to come here until this is all cleared
so we live quite now I'm going to actually I'm
Seeing the plane getting on board
so meanwhile we
Just hang around the airport
at least it's not going to get too crowded because
This is the only flight of the day
After our slightly awkward conversation yesterday I'm hoping Sooyoung is not too annoyed with me
Maybe this might make amends. This is what I used to do a long time ago before I became
Oh
It's dead fish. Yes, but a live human being I was alive everything James. Yeah
Yeah, hit quite hard is a big pike
But suddenly the airport manager who frankly has little else to do has some news
Ferguson that song yeah. Oh, oh yeah take it off. But but yeah
After hours of inertia as a sudden rush of activity and the plane arrives from Pyongyang
Air Koryo, the country's national airline has one of the oldest fleets in the world. This one was built in 1967
It's happening
Here's our plane. I think it said we think it's an Antonov Russian plane
It says 6f but there isn't any there's no 6f so I think I'll just sit here
Finally we're on our way
This 50-year old plane is taking me 500 miles north to mount paektu close to the border with China
It's very comfortable I wouldn't say the feet
Functional that's what the wonderful thing about them. They've got all these nice surfaces, and it's
carpet on the floor living this sort of wallpaper, but she's you know
This is 1960s Travel. Not 21st century travel
Yes, you feel quite comfortable here in economy flying about back to on Carrillo Airlines
After a while the landscape below becomes increasingly mountainous
Unrelieved when the wheels eventually touched down
As we disembark I find myself in a very different-looking part of the country
About Peck to matter we've come all this way to see
Just there just below weather. The Sun is setting and it's not one great peak
It's a sort of a group of mountain, but it's out
really over there just where the Sun and
the dark clouds are gathering the three incarnate we see it, but
But as the Sun sets the clouds clear and the snowy peaks reveal themselves
Ancient Korean legend
Has it that the mythical leader dangoon who created Korea was born Mount paektu thousands of years ago
But this area is also home to a slightly more recent legend
After we arrived at the hotel our taste buds are tantalized by a barbecue dinner
I'm basically a potato
That's been toasted on the fire so it's quite dark you feel that well you can't see that light
I'll see it. I could be eating a dead mouse, but you know it actually I'm told it's a potato
It's hard to believe that these rustic surroundings gave birth to the ruling Kim dynasty
The next morning I wake up in the far north of the DPRK and at a hotel
Which I'm not sure often sees actual guests
But those who make it this far
But probably here to see Mount Peck to a place where kim il-song the first leader of the DPRK made a name for himself
And just a few miles away
There are the remains of the camp where he lived with his family
I'm given a military guide to show me around the rebuilt
Union everyone
Given delicacy hyunyoung is cutting the root vegetable written ban. Mm. Mm - you spit out
During the first half of the 20th century. Korea was under hostile occupation by Japan
Kimmel's song first gained a reputation as a heroic resistance fighter in the 1930s
Was also here that the Future leader of the DPRK Kim Jong Il was apparently born
so didn't
Answer I said it's unmarked assimilate all the peppers and synchronize Syria numerous hatchet those little ordinary men who have some nice to go chief
Of the greases the middle
Of the Vedic untangled s not answering my sleep to mood X. Has she been young he was human
Cookie cutter he moves. He teleported apparently captured in Boko. He help Ichigo impact somebody wanted to meet each other
Listen, I see US economy. So good at the age of
Miraculous moment
It's a great story, but it's widely thought that Kim jong-il was actually born in communist
Russia and how much fighting kim il-song did here is up for debate?
But while the West sees the Kim dynasty as a dictatorship
Here their worshipped as heroes
Defending their country against Japanese and American invaders and it's this version of history that has helped them to hold on to power
for 70 years
Well, that's a pretty sensational view of that picture
This is a place where a lot comes together the thousands of years of Korean history
symbolizes frying by Malpeque to itself and then just behind me here the monument of the
founder of the DPRK kim ill sung
The past and the present coming together here
As I look at Mount pictu a place that has been sacred to all Koreans for thousands of years
I can't help but wonder if the great leaders and their giant statues will be around for quite as long
But it's time for me to leave our plane is ready to take us back to the bright lights of Pyongyang
My time in North Korea is drawing to a close
It's my last morning in Pyongyang and
This city which felt totally alien two weeks ago is now strangely familiar
But there's one area
I've yet to explore a brand new development of apartment shops and restaurants on the bank of the Tatum River
This is the North Korea of the 21st century and
It's changing
This is called mere a street which means I think future scientists Street
It's one of the sort of miracles of
the dprk because this street which is
Contains these amazing blocks was all built in a year
It takes me about a year
To get the bedroom painted let alone build entire
modern city street
But even just to build this stuff that quickly
shows ambition and a kind of sense of
National commitment commitment to making this ever look like a modern city
Since becoming leader Kim jong-un has promised to revitalize the economy of the DPRK
Many people say that free market forces are slowly taking hold as the old ideals of communism slip away
Maybe in five years time. This street will be full of muck dolls and adverts for iPhones
If so, I'm glad to have seen it before it becomes like everywhere else
When I first looked out over Pyongyang, I remember feeling very wary apprehensive
Was all very unfamiliar slightly threatening
Now two weeks later. I must say I feel much more
Relaxed I feel almost
Part of the city after I know it much more and I certainly feel less threatened
I know that the the ideology here permeates every single aspect of life, and I know that
We've not seen everything and yet
What I have seen feels
Well, it doesn't feel grim it doesn't feel brutal as someone have us think is actually I
Would say not an unhappy place
But it feels to me this country is at a crossroads on the one hand
It wants to open up to the wider world to expand culturally and economically
But on the other the system here seems intent on keeping the population
under the type of
Authoritarian rule that can only persist in a closed and repressive society
At some point in the near future. I feel the DPRK will have to decide which way it wants to go
Thank you for everything yes. Yes we film stop
We should all the best oh my anyway, hope to see you
I
Would love to show the guides my world to see what they would make of it all for now. That's not possible
But events are moving fast, and I hope positive change is coming to the people of North Korea
Fascinating stuff tomorrow Rob Bell channels his inner child when he rides a miniature train in Sheffield
He knew walking Britain's lost railways at 9:00
Next tonight as a welcome return for some of your favorite ever housemates. It's all getting very
exciting in Big Brother after the Beek
You